workflows/bugfix/README.md, before:

# Bug Fix Workflow for Ambient Code Platform

A systematic workflow for analyzing, fixing, and verifying software bugs. Guides developers through the complete bug resolution lifecycle from reproduction to release.

## Overview

This workflow provides a structured approach to fixing software bugs:

- **Systematic Process**: Six-phase methodology from reproduction to PR submission
- **Root Cause Focus**: Emphasizes understanding *why* bugs occur, not just *what* happens
- **Comprehensive Testing**: Ensures fixes work and prevents regression
- **Complete Documentation**: Creates all artifacts needed for release and future reference
- **Agent Collaboration**: Leverages ACP platform agents for complex scenarios

## Directory Structure

```text
bugfix/
├── .ambient/
│   └── ambient.json          # Workflow configuration
├── .claude/
│   ├── commands/             # Slash commands (thin wrappers → skills)
│   │   ├── reproduce.md
│   │   ├── diagnose.md
│   │   ├── fix.md
│   │   ├── test.md
│   │   ├── document.md
│   │   └── pr.md
│   └── skills/               # Detailed process definitions
│       ├── reproduce/SKILL.md
│       ├── diagnose/SKILL.md
│       ├── fix/SKILL.md
│       ├── test/SKILL.md
│       ├── document/SKILL.md
│       └── pr/SKILL.md
├── CLAUDE.md                 # Behavioral guidelines
└── README.md                 # This file
```

### How Commands and Skills Work Together

Each **command** is a thin wrapper that invokes a corresponding **skill**. When you run `/diagnose`, the command file tells the agent to read the Diagnose skill from `.claude/skills/diagnose/SKILL.md` and apply it — passing along any arguments you provided plus existing session context.

This separation keeps commands simple and consistent while the skills contain the full process details.

## Workflow Phases

The Bug Fix Workflow follows a systematic 6-phase approach:

### Phase 1: Reproduce (`/reproduce`)

**Purpose**: Systematically reproduce the bug and document observable behavior.

- Parse bug reports and extract key information
- Set up environment matching bug conditions
- Attempt reproduction with variations to understand boundaries
- Document minimal reproduction steps
- Create reproduction report with severity assessment

**Output**: `artifacts/bugfix/reports/reproduction.md`

**When to use**: Start here if you have a bug report, issue URL, or symptom description.

### Phase 2: Diagnose (`/diagnose`)

**Purpose**: Perform root cause analysis and assess impact.

- Review reproduction report and understand failure conditions
- Analyze code paths and trace execution flow
- Examine git history and recent changes
- Form and test hypotheses about root cause
- Assess impact across the codebase
- Recommend fix approach

**Output**: `artifacts/bugfix/analysis/root-cause.md`

**When to use**: After successful reproduction, or skip here if you know the symptoms.

### Phase 3: Fix (`/fix`)

**Purpose**: Implement the bug fix following best practices.

- Review fix strategy from diagnosis phase
- Create feature branch (`bugfix/issue-{number}-{description}`)
- Implement minimal code changes to fix the bug
- Address similar patterns identified in analysis
- Run linters and formatters
- Document implementation choices

**Output**: Modified code files + `artifacts/bugfix/fixes/implementation-notes.md`

**When to use**: After diagnosis phase, or jump here if you already know the root cause.

### Phase 4: Test (`/test`)

**Purpose**: Verify the fix and create regression tests.

- Create regression test that fails without fix, passes with fix
- Write comprehensive unit tests for modified code
- Run integration tests in realistic scenarios
- Execute full test suite to catch side effects
- Perform manual verification of original reproduction steps
- Check for performance or security impacts

**Output**: New test files + `artifacts/bugfix/tests/verification.md`

**When to use**: After implementing the fix.

### Phase 5: Document (`/document`)

**Purpose**: Create complete documentation for the fix.

- Update issue/ticket with root cause and fix summary
- Create release notes entry
- Write CHANGELOG addition
- Update code comments with issue references
- Draft PR description

**Output**: `artifacts/bugfix/docs/` containing issue updates, release notes, changelog entries, and PR description.

**When to use**: After testing is complete.

### Phase 6: PR (`/pr`)

**Purpose**: Create a pull request to submit the bug fix.

- Run pre-flight checks (authentication, remotes, git config)
- Ensure a fork exists and is configured as a remote
- Create a branch, stage changes, and commit with conventional format
- Push to fork and create a draft PR targeting upstream
- Handle common failures (no push access, no fork permission) with clear fallbacks

**Output**: A draft pull request URL (or manual creation instructions if automation fails).

**When to use**: After all prior phases are complete, or whenever you're ready to submit.

## Getting Started

### Quick Start

1. **Create an AgenticSession** in the Ambient Code Platform
2. **Select "Bug Fix Workflow"** from the workflows dropdown
3. **Provide context**: Bug report URL, issue number, or symptom description
4. **Start with `/reproduce`** to systematically document the bug
5. **Follow the phases** sequentially or jump to any phase based on your context

### Example Usage

#### Scenario 1: You have a bug report

```text
User: "Fix bug https://github.com/org/repo/issues/425 - session status updates failing"

Workflow: Starts with /reproduce to confirm the bug
→ /diagnose to find root cause
→ /fix to implement solution
→ /test to verify fix
→ /document to create release notes
→ /pr to submit the fix
```

#### Scenario 2: You know the symptoms

```text
User: "Sessions are failing to update status in the operator"

Workflow: Jumps to /diagnose for root cause analysis
→ /fix to implement
→ /test to verify
→ /document
→ /pr
```

#### Scenario 3: You already know the fix

```text
User: "Missing retry logic in UpdateStatus call at operator/handlers/sessions.go:334"

Workflow: Jumps to /fix to implement
→ /test to verify
→ /document
→ /pr
```

### Prerequisites

- Access to the codebase where the bug exists
- Ability to run and test code locally or in an appropriate environment
- Git access for creating branches and reviewing history

## Agent Orchestration

This workflow is orchestrated by **Amber**, who serves as your single point of contact. Rather than manually selecting agents, Amber automatically coordinates the right specialists from the ACP platform based on the complexity and nature of the task.

**Specialists Amber may engage:**

- **Stella (Staff Engineer)** — Complex debugging, root cause analysis, architectural issues
- **Neil (Test Engineer)** — Comprehensive test strategies, integration testing, automation
- **Taylor (Team Member)** — Straightforward implementations, documentation
- **secure-software-braintrust** — Security vulnerability assessment
- **sre-reliability-engineer** — Performance and reliability issues
- **frontend-performance-debugger** — Frontend-specific performance bugs
- And any other platform agents as the situation warrants

You interact with Amber. Amber assesses each phase and brings in the right expertise automatically.

## Artifacts Generated

All workflow artifacts are organized in the `artifacts/bugfix/` directory:

```text
artifacts/bugfix/
├── reports/                  # Bug reproduction reports
│   └── reproduction.md
├── analysis/                 # Root cause analysis
│   └── root-cause.md
├── fixes/                    # Implementation notes
│   └── implementation-notes.md
├── tests/                    # Test results and verification
│   └── verification.md
├── docs/                     # Documentation and release notes
│   ├── issue-update.md
│   ├── release-notes.md
│   ├── changelog-entry.md
│   └── pr-description.md
└── logs/                     # Execution logs
    └── *.log
```

## Best Practices

### Reproduction

- Take time to reproduce reliably — flaky reproduction leads to incomplete diagnosis
- Document even failed attempts — inability to reproduce is valuable information
- Create minimal reproduction steps that others can follow

### Diagnosis

- Understand the *why*, not just the *what*
- Document your reasoning process for future developers
- Use `file:line` notation when referencing code (e.g., `handlers.go:245`)
- Consider similar patterns elsewhere in the codebase

### Implementation

- Keep fixes minimal — only change what's necessary
- Don't combine refactoring with bug fixes
- Reference issue numbers in code comments
- Consider backward compatibility

### Testing

- Regression tests are mandatory — every fix must include a test
- Test the test — verify it fails without the fix
- Run the full test suite, not just new tests
- Manual verification matters

### Documentation

- Be clear and specific for future developers
- Link issues, PRs, and commits for easy navigation
- Consider your audience (technical vs. user-facing)
- Don't skip this step — documentation is as important as code

## Behavioral Guidelines

The `CLAUDE.md` file defines engineering discipline, safety, and quality standards for bug fix sessions. Key points:

- **Confidence levels**: Every action is tagged High/Medium/Low confidence
- **Safety guardrails**: No direct commits to main, no force-push, no secret logging
- **Escalation criteria**: When to stop and request human guidance
- **Project respect**: The workflow adapts to the target project's conventions

See `CLAUDE.md` for full details.

## Customization

You can customize this workflow by:

1. **Adding project-specific linting commands** in the Fix skill
2. **Customizing test commands** in the Test skill for your stack
3. **Extending phases** with additional steps for your workflow
4. **Modifying artifact paths** to match your project structure

### Environment-Specific Adjustments

- **Microservices**: Add service dependency analysis to Diagnose
- **Frontend**: Include browser testing in Test
- **Backend**: Add database migration checks to Fix
- **Infrastructure**: Include deployment validation in Test

## Troubleshooting

### "I can't reproduce the bug"

- Document what you tried and what was different
- Check environment differences (versions, config, data)
- Ask the reporter for more details
- Consider it may be fixed or non-reproducible

### "Multiple potential root causes"

- Document all hypotheses in `/diagnose`
- Test each systematically
- May need multiple fixes if multiple issues

### "Tests are failing after fix"

- Check if tests were wrong or your fix broke something
- Review test assumptions
- Consider if behavior change was intentional

### "Fix is too complex"

- Amber will engage Stella for complex scenarios
- Consider breaking into smaller fixes
- May indicate an underlying architectural issue

Commit message:

feat(bugfix): add optional /review phase and improve /test reporting
- Add .claude/skills/review/SKILL.md — critically evaluates fix and tests,
  issues verdict (inadequate fix / incomplete tests / solid), recommends
  next steps
- Add .claude/commands/review.md thin wrapper
- Update /test skill to report verification.md path and summarize results
  inline to the user
- Update systemPrompt, startupPrompt, CLAUDE.md, README with /review as
  optional phase 5 between test and document

workflows/bugfix/README.md, after:

# Bug Fix Workflow for Ambient Code Platform

A systematic workflow for analyzing, fixing, and verifying software bugs. Guides developers through the complete bug resolution lifecycle from reproduction to release.

## Overview

This workflow provides a structured approach to fixing software bugs:

- **Systematic Process**: Structured methodology from reproduction to PR submission
- **Root Cause Focus**: Emphasizes understanding *why* bugs occur, not just *what* happens
- **Comprehensive Testing**: Ensures fixes work and prevents regression
- **Complete Documentation**: Creates all artifacts needed for release and future reference
- **Agent Collaboration**: Leverages ACP platform agents for complex scenarios

## Directory Structure

```text
bugfix/
├── .ambient/
│   └── ambient.json          # Workflow configuration
├── .claude/
│   ├── commands/             # Slash commands (thin wrappers → skills)
│   │   ├── reproduce.md
│   │   ├── diagnose.md
│   │   ├── fix.md
│   │   ├── test.md
│   │   ├── review.md
│   │   ├── document.md
│   │   └── pr.md
│   └── skills/               # Detailed process definitions
│       ├── reproduce/SKILL.md
│       ├── diagnose/SKILL.md
│       ├── fix/SKILL.md
│       ├── test/SKILL.md
│       ├── review/SKILL.md
│       ├── document/SKILL.md
│       └── pr/SKILL.md
├── CLAUDE.md                 # Behavioral guidelines
└── README.md                 # This file
```

### How Commands and Skills Work Together

Each **command** is a thin wrapper that invokes a corresponding **skill**. When you run `/diagnose`, the command file tells the agent to read the Diagnose skill from `.claude/skills/diagnose/SKILL.md` and apply it — passing along any arguments you provided plus existing session context.

This separation keeps commands simple and consistent while the skills contain the full process details.

## Workflow Phases

The Bug Fix Workflow follows this approach:

### Phase 1: Reproduce (`/reproduce`)

**Purpose**: Systematically reproduce the bug and document observable behavior.

- Parse bug reports and extract key information
- Set up environment matching bug conditions
- Attempt reproduction with variations to understand boundaries
- Document minimal reproduction steps
- Create reproduction report with severity assessment

**Output**: `artifacts/bugfix/reports/reproduction.md`

**When to use**: Start here if you have a bug report, issue URL, or symptom description.

### Phase 2: Diagnose (`/diagnose`)

**Purpose**: Perform root cause analysis and assess impact.

- Review reproduction report and understand failure conditions
- Analyze code paths and trace execution flow
- Examine git history and recent changes
- Form and test hypotheses about root cause
- Assess impact across the codebase
- Recommend fix approach

**Output**: `artifacts/bugfix/analysis/root-cause.md`

**When to use**: After successful reproduction, or skip here if you know the symptoms.

### Phase 3: Fix (`/fix`)

**Purpose**: Implement the bug fix following best practices.

- Review fix strategy from diagnosis phase
- Create feature branch (`bugfix/issue-{number}-{description}`)
- Implement minimal code changes to fix the bug
- Address similar patterns identified in analysis
- Run linters and formatters
- Document implementation choices

**Output**: Modified code files + `artifacts/bugfix/fixes/implementation-notes.md`

**When to use**: After diagnosis phase, or jump here if you already know the root cause.

### Phase 4: Test (`/test`)

**Purpose**: Verify the fix and create regression tests.

- Create regression test that fails without fix, passes with fix
- Write comprehensive unit tests for modified code
- Run integration tests in realistic scenarios
- Execute full test suite to catch side effects
- Perform manual verification of original reproduction steps
- Check for performance or security impacts

**Output**: New test files + `artifacts/bugfix/tests/verification.md`

**When to use**: After implementing the fix.

### Phase 5: Review (`/review`) — Optional

**Purpose**: Critically evaluate the fix and its tests before proceeding.

- Re-read all evidence (reproduction report, root cause analysis, code changes, test results)
- Critique the fix: Does it address the root cause or just suppress the symptom?
- Critique the tests: Do they prove the bug is fixed, or do mocks hide real problems?
- Classify into a verdict and recommend next steps

**Verdicts**:

- **Fix is inadequate** → Recommend going back to `/fix` with specific guidance
- **Fix is adequate, tests are incomplete** → Provide instructions for what additional testing is needed (including manual steps for the user)
- **Fix and tests are solid** → Recommend proceeding to `/document` and `/pr`

**Output**: Review findings reported inline to the user (not a file).

**When to use**: After `/test`, especially for complex or high-risk fixes.

### Phase 6: Document (`/document`)

**Purpose**: Create complete documentation for the fix.

- Update issue/ticket with root cause and fix summary
- Create release notes entry
- Write CHANGELOG addition
- Update code comments with issue references
- Draft PR description

**Output**: `artifacts/bugfix/docs/` containing issue updates, release notes, changelog entries, and PR description.

**When to use**: After testing is complete.

### Phase 7: PR (`/pr`)

**Purpose**: Create a pull request to submit the bug fix.

- Run pre-flight checks (authentication, remotes, git config)
- Ensure a fork exists and is configured as a remote
- Create a branch, stage changes, and commit with conventional format
- Push to fork and create a draft PR targeting upstream
- Handle common failures (no push access, no fork permission) with clear fallbacks

**Output**: A draft pull request URL (or manual creation instructions if automation fails).

**When to use**: After all prior phases are complete, or whenever you're ready to submit.

## Getting Started

### Quick Start

1. **Create an AgenticSession** in the Ambient Code Platform
2. **Select "Bug Fix Workflow"** from the workflows dropdown
3. **Provide context**: Bug report URL, issue number, or symptom description
4. **Start with `/reproduce`** to systematically document the bug
5. **Follow the phases** sequentially or jump to any phase based on your context

### Example Usage

#### Scenario 1: You have a bug report

```text
User: "Fix bug https://github.com/org/repo/issues/425 - session status updates failing"

Workflow: Starts with /reproduce to confirm the bug
→ /diagnose to find root cause
→ /fix to implement solution
→ /test to verify fix
→ /document to create release notes
→ /pr to submit the fix
```

#### Scenario 2: You know the symptoms

```text
User: "Sessions are failing to update status in the operator"

Workflow: Jumps to /diagnose for root cause analysis
→ /fix to implement
→ /test to verify
→ /document
→ /pr
```

#### Scenario 3: You already know the fix

```text
User: "Missing retry logic in UpdateStatus call at operator/handlers/sessions.go:334"

Workflow: Jumps to /fix to implement
→ /test to verify
→ /document
→ /pr
```

### Prerequisites

- Access to the codebase where the bug exists
- Ability to run and test code locally or in an appropriate environment
- Git access for creating branches and reviewing history

## Agent Orchestration

This workflow is orchestrated by **Amber**, who serves as your single point of contact. Rather than manually selecting agents, Amber automatically coordinates the right specialists from the ACP platform based on the complexity and nature of the task.

**Specialists Amber may engage:**

- **Stella (Staff Engineer)** — Complex debugging, root cause analysis, architectural issues
- **Neil (Test Engineer)** — Comprehensive test strategies, integration testing, automation
- **Taylor (Team Member)** — Straightforward implementations, documentation
- **secure-software-braintrust** — Security vulnerability assessment
- **sre-reliability-engineer** — Performance and reliability issues
- **frontend-performance-debugger** — Frontend-specific performance bugs
- And any other platform agents as the situation warrants

You interact with Amber. Amber assesses each phase and brings in the right expertise automatically.

## Artifacts Generated

All workflow artifacts are organized in the `artifacts/bugfix/` directory:

```text
artifacts/bugfix/
├── reports/                  # Bug reproduction reports
│   └── reproduction.md
├── analysis/                 # Root cause analysis
│   └── root-cause.md
├── fixes/                    # Implementation notes
│   └── implementation-notes.md
├── tests/                    # Test results and verification
│   └── verification.md
├── docs/                     # Documentation and release notes
│   ├── issue-update.md
│   ├── release-notes.md
│   ├── changelog-entry.md
│   └── pr-description.md
└── logs/                     # Execution logs
    └── *.log
```

## Best Practices

### Reproduction

- Take time to reproduce reliably — flaky reproduction leads to incomplete diagnosis
- Document even failed attempts — inability to reproduce is valuable information
- Create minimal reproduction steps that others can follow

### Diagnosis

- Understand the *why*, not just the *what*
- Document your reasoning process for future developers
- Use `file:line` notation when referencing code (e.g., `handlers.go:245`)
- Consider similar patterns elsewhere in the codebase

### Implementation

- Keep fixes minimal — only change what's necessary
- Don't combine refactoring with bug fixes
- Reference issue numbers in code comments
- Consider backward compatibility

### Testing

- Regression tests are mandatory — every fix must include a test
- Test the test — verify it fails without the fix
- Run the full test suite, not just new tests
- Manual verification matters

### Documentation

- Be clear and specific for future developers
- Link issues, PRs, and commits for easy navigation
- Consider your audience (technical vs. user-facing)
- Don't skip this step — documentation is as important as code

## Behavioral Guidelines

The `CLAUDE.md` file defines engineering discipline, safety, and quality standards for bug fix sessions. Key points:

- **Confidence levels**: Every action is tagged High/Medium/Low confidence
- **Safety guardrails**: No direct commits to main, no force-push, no secret logging
- **Escalation criteria**: When to stop and request human guidance
- **Project respect**: The workflow adapts to the target project's conventions

See `CLAUDE.md` for full details.

## Customization

You can customize this workflow by:

1. **Adding project-specific linting commands** in the Fix skill
2. **Customizing test commands** in the Test skill for your stack
3. **Extending phases** with additional steps for your workflow
4. **Modifying artifact paths** to match your project structure

### Environment-Specific Adjustments

- **Microservices**: Add service dependency analysis to Diagnose
- **Frontend**: Include browser testing in Test
- **Backend**: Add database migration checks to Fix
- **Infrastructure**: Include deployment validation in Test

## Troubleshooting

### "I can't reproduce the bug"

- Document what you tried and what was different
- Check environment differences (versions, config, data)
- Ask the reporter for more details
- Consider it may be fixed or non-reproducible

### "Multiple potential root causes"

- Document all hypotheses in `/diagnose`
- Test each systematically
- May need multiple fixes if multiple issues

### "Tests are failing after fix"

- Check if tests were wrong or your fix broke something
- Review test assumptions
- Consider if behavior change was intentional

### "Fix is too complex"

- Amber will engage Stella for complex scenarios
- Consider breaking into smaller fixes
- May indicate an underlying architectural issue
